---
title:      "Data Mesh"
ring:       trial
quadrant:   methods-and-patterns
---


[**Data mesh**](https://martinfowler.com/articles/data-monolith-to-mesh.html) is a _decentralized_ organizational and technical approach in sharing, accessing and managing data for analytics and ML. Its objective is to create a _sociotechnical_ approach that scales out getting value from data as the organization's complexity grows and as the use cases for data proliferate and the sources of data diversify. Essentially, it creates a _responsible_ data-sharing model that is in step with organizational growth and continuous change. In our experience, interest in the application of data mesh has grown tremendously. The approach has inspired many organizations to embrace its adoption and technology providers to repurpose their existing technologies for a mesh deployment. Despite the great interest and growing experience in data mesh, its implementations face high cost of integration. Moreover, its adoption remains limited to sections of larger organizations and technology vendors are distracting the organizations from the hard _socio_ aspects of data mesh — decentralized data ownership and a federated governance operating model.

These ideas are explored in _[Data Mesh, Delivering Data-Driven Value at Scale](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Mesh-Delivering-Data-Driven-Value/dp/1492092398)_, which guides practitioners, architects, technical leaders and decision makers on their journeys from traditional big data architecture to data mesh. It provides a complete introduction to data mesh principles and its constituents; it covers how to design a data mesh architecture, guide and execute a data mesh strategy and navigate organizational design to a decentralized data ownership model. The goal of the book is to create a TRUE framework for deeper conversations and lead to the next phase in maturity of data mesh.